The city vs the wilderness, Space as city vs space as wilderness.

What differentiates city from settled land from wilderness? Population and Infrastructure?
Space Infrastructure?

## Monday 1-23: What makes a good setting for adventure?

Last week [Orbital Crypt](https://orbitalcrypt.blogspot.com/2023/01/post-apocalypse-gamma-world-analysis.html) made a post about getting ready for a post-apocalyptic campaign. In it he makes mention of what makes for a good adventure setting.

> The selection process helped me crystalize what kind of setting works best for this kind of campaign. You need a big world with soft borders, one with enough people around to provide many opportunities for trade, conflict and faction play, while still leaving a whole lot of map open for monsters and dungeons to live in. You also need cool stuff lying around, and a reason for why all the cool stuff hasn't been looted yet - either because the existing civilization isn't strong enough to grab it all, because something is constantly creating more dungeon, or because The Mandatory "Fall Of The Great Civilization" event happened too recently and the world is still in the early days of recovery. The last one is probably the most convenient, because it needs the least justification; if the new world is young, you don't have to explain why it is so bountiful. As an added plus, the shackles of a greater, more organized civilization have yet to fall upon the land and render it more ordered, safe and lawful - things that don't make for a good adventuring realm. Instead, lines are more naturally drawn between many smaller and more local powers (which are in turn more easily messed with by individuals, such as the PCs). 
> 
> Orbital Crypt  
> - Post: Apocalypse - A Gamma World Analysis & Sandbox Prep Megapost

He points to Against the Wicked City's classic post "OSR [Aesthetics of Ruin](http://udan-adan.blogspot.com/2016/09/osr-aesthetics-of-ruin.html)". Now this is some great stuff, but my mind wonders how one could create a great sandbox setting that aesthetically moves in the opposite direction.

-   A small world with hard borders
-   Generally few people around
-   Not alot of space for dungeons or for monsters to live in
-   Not alot of cool stuff just lying around for the taking
-   Nothing is actively going around making cool things or something made cool things but is no longer around
-   A central power controls most civilization making it generally ordered and lawful.

This whole thing smells like an O'Neil Cylinder in transit between worlds. Relatively small, no real "wilderness" because your borders are extremely empty space. Few people around could be because they're all in hibernation or because the cylinder is meant to be filled once it arrives. Everyone left is thinly distributed around on maintenance projects.Very little gets built because there's few excess resources. The whole thing is probably under close central control of whoever runs the colony.

So how does one make this a good setting for adventure?

1.  Perhaps the PC's are opposed to whatever org maintains control. If this is an AI, then maybe having multiple AI's that work in conert might be a good idea. Friend computer, Hal 9000 etc. I'd personally draw inspiration from this excellent [Wayspell Post](https://wayspell.blogspot.com/2022/09/the-hierarchy-of-angels-and-ai.html). If it's people I recommend making it a counsel rather than an individual.
2.  Whatever "monsters" you do want to use has to be something that is either impossible to defeat permanently or has to have excellent means of escaping.
3.  If the space is enclosed then there should be some variety in the terrain. I imagine most of the area will be urban or Agricultural, so having botanic gardens might be a good idea. Maybe crib from the Book of the new sun and have space be bent in the gardens so these areas are larger than expected.
4.  I expect this to be a very social game so don't make combat the main focus. If you do want combat then I think utilizing something like a colosseum (Virtual? AR?) would be a good workaround.